README.md, before:

# Influx

Subscriptions with Stripe for Rails applications. 

Influx does not contain a UI, just models and services to construct a 
subscription service.

Influx borrows heavily from the gems payola and koudoku, and especially 
the book 'Mastering Modern Payments'.

Influx does not yet support coupons, nor some features of subscriptions 
such as "quantity". Support is coming soon.


## Dependencies

Influx requires that you have:
* a subscriber model (Influx defaults to `::User`) with an `email` attribute
* Stripe keys


## Installation

To get started, add Influx to your `Gemfile` and run `bundle install` to install it:

```ruby
gem 'influx'
```

Run the influx installer and then the influx migrations:

    % rails generate influx:install
    % rails influx:install:migrations
    % rake db:migrate

The Influx install generator assumes your subscriber model is `::User`. You may
specify an alternate class with the `--subscriber` flag:

    % rails generate influx::install --subscriber MyApp::Profile


### What does the install task do?

* Installs an initializer: `config/initializers/influx.rb`
* Add a route to mount the StripeEvent engine: `mount StripeEvent::Engine => '/hooks/stripe'`


## Configuration

The `influx::install` generator installs the Influx initializer at 
`config/initializers/influx.rb`. The initializer contains an Influx 
configuration that uses sensible defaults but offers several options.


### Subscriber class

Influx assumes your subscriber model is a class named `::User`. If you 
specify a subscriber class with the install generator, it will be set 
in the initializer's configuration:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.subscriber = 'MyApp::Profile'
end
```


### Stripe Keys

The default implementation expects your stripe keys to be set in three environment variables:

* `STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`
* `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`
* `STRIPE_SIGNING_SECRET`


It's not recommended, but you can instead set the keys yourself in the 
Influx initializer:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.secret_key = 'sk_test_1234567890'
  config.publishable_key = 'pk_test_1234567890'
  config.signing_secret = 'some_secret_key'
end
```


### Default Currency

The default currency defaults to 'usd'. You can change to some other currency 
with the configuration option `default_currency` in the initializer config:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.default_currency = 'eur'
end
```

See Stripe's [Supported Currencies](https://stripe.com/docs/currencies) page 
for more information.


### Event Filter

Influx uses the [stripe_event](https://github.com/integrallis/stripe_event) 
gem to retrieve Stripe events. Influx ships with an EventFilter 
implementation that records all events seen and will not retrieve an event 
with the same id a second time.

You can specify your own additional event filter in the initializer config:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.event_filter = MyApp::MyCustomEventFilter.new
end
```


## Usage

Influx provides models and services.

* Create plans from the console using `Influx::CreatePlan`.
* Offer subscriptions and sign users up using `Influx::CreateSubscription`.
* Change subscription plans with `Influx::ChangeSubscriptionPlan`.
* Cancel subscriptions with `Influx::CancelSubscription`.


## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at 
https://github.com/tomichj/influx. This project is intended to be a safe, 
welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to 
the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the 
[MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

cancel subscription, change subscription plan
cancel subscription - added options with at_period_end support
change subscription plan - added trial_end, instrumented

added specs

README.md, after:

# Influx

Subscriptions with Stripe for Rails applications. 

Influx does not contain a UI, just models and services to construct a 
subscription service.

Influx borrows heavily from the gems payola and koudoku, and especially 
the book 'Mastering Modern Payments'.

## Dependencies

Influx requires that you have:
* a subscriber model (Influx defaults to `::User`) with an `email` attribute
* Stripe keys

## Installation

To get started, add Influx to your `Gemfile` and run `bundle install` to install it:

```ruby
gem 'influx'
```

Run the influx installer and then the influx migrations:

    % rails generate influx:install
    % rails influx:install:migrations
    % rake db:migrate

The Influx install generator assumes your subscriber model is `::User`. You may
specify an alternate class with the `--subscriber` flag:

    % rails generate influx::install --subscriber MyApp::Profile


### What does the install task do?

* Installs an initializer: `config/initializers/influx.rb`
* Add a route to mount the StripeEvent engine: `mount StripeEvent::Engine => '/hooks/stripe'`


## Configuration

The `influx::install` generator installs the Influx initializer at 
`config/initializers/influx.rb`. The initializer contains an Influx 
configuration that uses sensible defaults but offers several options.


### Subscriber class

Influx assumes your subscriber model is a class named `::User`. If you 
specify a subscriber class with the install generator, it will be set 
in the initializer's configuration:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.subscriber = 'MyApp::Profile'
end
```


### Stripe Keys

The default implementation expects your stripe keys to be set in three environment variables:

* `STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`
* `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`
* `STRIPE_SIGNING_SECRET`


It's not recommended, but you can instead set the keys yourself in the 
Influx initializer:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.secret_key = 'sk_test_1234567890'
  config.publishable_key = 'pk_test_1234567890'
  config.signing_secret = 'some_secret_key'
end
```


### Default Currency

The default currency defaults to 'usd'. You can change to some other currency 
with the configuration option `default_currency` in the initializer config:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.default_currency = 'eur'
end
```

See Stripe's [Supported Currencies](https://stripe.com/docs/currencies) page 
for more information.


### Event Processing

Influx uses the [stripe_event](https://github.com/integrallis/stripe_event) 
gem to process Stripe events. Influx records each event id and will not
process an event with the same id a second time.

You can supply an event filter in the initializer config:

```ruby
Influx.configure do |config|
  config.event_filter = MyApp::MyCustomEventFilter.new
end
```


## Usage

Influx provides models and services.

* Create plans from the console using `Influx::CreatePlan`.
* Offer subscriptions and sign users up using `Influx::CreateSubscription`.
* Change subscription plans with `Influx::ChangeSubscriptionPlan`.
* Cancel subscriptions with `Influx::CancelSubscription`.


## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at 
https://github.com/tomichj/influx. This project is intended to be a safe, 
welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to 
the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the 
[MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
